# Challenge

## Objective
Develop a data-driven system to score and rank founders to help investment team identify high-potential individuals to connect with.

## Background
Identifying and connecting with exceptional founders is critically important for venture investing. Our team encounters a vast number of founders through conferences, industry events, inbound interest, and internal research. The challenge is to effectively prioritize this pipeline to identify the most promising individuals to engage with first.

Your task is to build a model or heuristic that processes information about founders and produces a "Founder Score." This score will be used to rank an incoming list of founders, helping our team focus their efforts. We expect your submission to include both the score and an explanation of its underlying factors.

## Task
Consider the following datasets:

### Training
1) founder_experience_training.csv: This is a dataset of the experiences of founders which you can use to train your model.
2) education_training.csv: This contains info on the educational background of the founders in founder_experience_training.csv
3) company_info_training.csv: This contains info on companies that founders have worked at, other than the companies they founded.
4) target_variable_training.csv: We define a good founder as someone who creates a company that yields a high return for venture capital investors. This dataset contains a measure of ROI for companies that the founders started, and supplementary info.
5) dataset_explanation.txt: Provides further clarity on the data we are providing you.

You can use these training datasets for analysis, feature engineering, and to train your model/heuristic if you choose.

### Ranking
1) founder_experience.csv
2) education.csv
3) company_info.csv

These are the "interest lists" of new founders who need to be evaluated. They are structured identically to the corresponding training datasets above.

We would like you to process these files and produce a ranked list of founders that appear in founder_experience.csv with the following output format:

founder_id,score, rank, explanation

### Example
```

founder\_id, score, rank, explanation
f\_1024,0.95, 1, "Explanation 1"
f\_0776,0.92, 2, "Explanation 2"
f\_3121,0.88,3, "Explanation 3"

```

The explanation field will depend on your implementation and can be quantitative or qualitative. We're interested in what contributed to the founder ranking, whether it be some key metrics or a natural language description, but should provide some justification to end users.

We're expecting a rough, but working, end-to-end solution. This problem is open-ended, so you don't need to worry about perfection. The data we are providing you is itself far from perfect. It's okay if your model has limitations as long as you understand its shortcomings and are able to further discuss where and how it might be improved. We're looking to see creativity, clarity, and your ability to leverage existing tech you are familiar with.

We have implemented most of our pipeline in Python using the Pandas library, and this is a great framework for building a solution. However, we recognize that not everyone has had experience with this framework, so we will accept solutions in any standard Google language: C++, Java, Go (or check with us if you prefer something else). If you do go with Python, a colab or jupyter notebook is a great way to collaborate on this type of work.

Whatever you choose, include:
 - All source code to run your solution.
 - A README.md file that includes:
   - Clear, step-by-step instructions on how to install dependencies and run your code.
   - A short explanation of your approach and any limitations you identified.
 - The final ranked_founders.csv output file generated by your solution.

## Follow up

Here's some extensions to the problem we'd like you to think about, but you don't need to build:
- If you were to expand on your solution, in what ways might it be improved?
- What other insights can you glean from the data that you have extracted?
- How would you measure the performance of your solution?
- What other data sources would you want to integrate to improve your scoring?
- Imagine you now have 100 million founders to rank. How would you scale up your solution?
- How would you productionize it and support real time scoring for new founders?
- Let's say we are now looking to find candidates for other roles, such as C-suite, lead scientist, marketing, etc. How would you modify your solution to handle this? How would you modify your solution if you needed to rank founders within specific industries (Al, consumer, life sciences, etc)?